Advanced Keyword 

Research Guide



Table of content

3 Why keyword research is important

4 How to build a keyword list and find new keyword ideas

9 How to select the most relevant keywords

13 Advanced Keyword Research Tips

15 Localization - How to keyword research in different languages

2



Why keyword 

research is important

There are more than 3 million apps in both the Apple App Store 
and the Google Play Store. Each day, another 3,000 new apps are 
released on average. One of the main methods for people to 
navigate this universe and discover new apps is “App Store Search”. 
According to Apple, over 65% of app downloads come from app 
store search, and nearly half of those searches were generic (not 
branded) searches. 

For your app or game to show up for specific searches you need to 
make sure those keywords are targeted in your app listing’s 
metadata. The app store algorithm will further assign your app a 
higher rank if the keyword is contained in your app title or subtitle 
over the long description or keyword field.

 

The app store search results are competitive and the space for 
optimization is limited, hence careful keyword research is a crucial 
step to increase your app’s visibility in the app stores. 


3



How to build a keyword list
The first step to find new keyword ranking opportunities is to 
complete building what we call a “semantic dictionary”, or in 
other words, a list of relevant keywords for your app on which it 
could rank. This could involve using brainstorming and writing 
down words or short phrases you think people might search to 
find your app, but you can also use a thesaurus to find similar 
words, read the app description for apps similar to yours, or use 
an ASO tool to help make this process easier, quicker and 
create a more exhaustive list.



Here are our 10 tips to find new keyword ideas :

1 Analyze top app’s names, subtitles, and descriptions

As a first step into your keyword research you can have a look at the 
keywords other top apps in your category are targeting in their 
metadata. This research can unveil which keywords they deem the most 
relevant and might provide great insights for your own app.

4



2 Find out which keywords are generating most downloads for 
your competitors

The best way to find new keywords for your app is to dig deeper into 
your competitor’s ASO strategy. It can provide you with a large pool of 
new keyword ideas and give you more insights into what is working for 
them and what not. 

AppTweak’s Top Keywords feature unveils the keywords that drive most downloads 
to your competitor’s apps. For example, Flipp receives most of its downloads from 
its own branded terms but also competitor brands and general keywords such as 
‘coupons’, ‘store ads’, or ‘shopping deals’.

3 Find out which keywords competitors are bidding on in Apple 
Search Ads

This can be your biggest source of inspiration when building your 
keyword list! Competitors that run an Advanced Apple Search Ads 
campaign likely did a lot of research to find a pool of relevant keywords 
that they can run ads on. With an ASO tool like AppTweak you can unveil 
this information and create a pool of hundreds of keywords in minutes.

5



4 Identify keywords competitor’s rank for but you don’t

When you build a keyword list, you will naturally start with the keywords 
that are the most relevant for your app. However, the most interesting 
keywords are the ones you have potentially missed. The best way to find 
these missed opportunities is to closely research your competitor’s 
keywords and find those keywords for which they rank, but your app 
does not.

Using AppTweak’s Opportunity Keywords we quickly spot keywords 
that Wordscapes is ranking for but Word Cookies is not; including 
‘crossword games’, ‘vocabulary apps’, ‘anagramme’, ‘game with letters’, 
etc. These are very interesting keywords for Word Cookies to further 
research and consider for its metadata.


5 Identify keywords you’re already ranked in but aren’t optimizing for

Reviewing your app’s ranked keywords is a crucial part in creating your ASO 
strategy but is also very useful when researching new keyword opportunities 
as it can unveil low hanging fruit. This part of your research can unveil 
keywords that you did not target in your metadata but for which your app is 
ranking. By adding these keywords to your metadata you can further increase 
your rankings.

6



6 Understand app store search behavior with Apple & Google 
auto-suggestions

With Google and Apple Auto-Suggest features, you can check out the 
auto-complete keywords coming directly from the Apple App Store and 
Google Play Store. This is one of the strongest tools to understand which 
keywords users use most often when they search in the app store.

7 Find out which keywords are trending

Seasonal events or new game launches can have a great impact on app 
store search behavior. When relevant to your app some of these high 
volume keywords can drive a lot of visibility to your app.

If you are looking to update your metadata for seasonality, you need to carefully 
study AppTweak’s Top Growth feature. Here you can discover which apps or games 
have gone viral or spot seasonal opportunities. For example, as many people are 
currently working from home due to the Covid 19 outbreak, we see that keywords 
such as ‘fitness coach’ or ‘kids messenger’ are gaining popularity.

7



8 Look at the keywords for which Apple ranks featured content

To help users discover new content and apps Apple now also ranks 
curated lists and stories in the search results. We found that the 
keywords chosen by Apple to rank stories were actually closely related 
to the apps featured in that story. These keywords provide a real source 
of inspiration to explore new ASO ideas and tactics for your app. You will 
need an advanced ASO tool like AppTweak to unveil these insights.

9 Take a look at your reviews

The goal of keyword research is to find as many keywords that are 
relevant, and your app’s reviews is a place that’s rich with words that 
describe it. Your users, especially the ones that like your app enough to 
leave a review, will describe the app using their own words. Some may 
speak of it exactly as you think they would, but others may use slightly 
different words that you can capture and optimize for.

10 Merge and combine words to find new long-tail keywords.

Don’t forget about long-tail keyword combinations. These often have 
lower volume but also a lower difficulty score and thus are easier to rank 
for. With AppTweak’s Keyword Shuffle tool you can add up to 5 keywords 
and automatically we’ll create all possible combinations.

AppTweak has more than 12 keyword research and suggestion tools to help you 
with your keyword research. We recommend you to go through all AppTweak’s 
keyword suggestion tools and add all the keywords that describe your app’s 
functionality to your keyword list. Try to add up to 200 keywords to your list. In the 
next step we will highlight how you can refine your keyword list and select the most 
relevant keywords for your metadata. 

8



How to select the most 
relevant keywords

Generating a semantic dictionary is an important part of 
keyword research, but it is really only one step in the entire 
process. After you have added whatever you deem to be 
enough keywords to your preliminary list, you need to sort 
through your keywords to find the most strategic terms and 
phrases that will, as a result of successful ASO, maximize your 
organic downloads and increase your ranking.




To select the most relevant keywords for your metadata 
consider: 

• Keyword Relevancy

• Keyword Metrics

9



Relevancy
The first element to consider when selecting keywords for your 
metadata is relevancy. You should only target keywords that describe 
the functionality of your app. Not only will that result in higher quality 
downloads and more engaged users, your app will rank higher for 
keywords that are relevant to your app instead of generic keywords. The 
reason for that is simple: both stores want to provide you with the best 
user experience and show apps that match the user’s search intent.

Booking.com helps users book accommodation 
for their upcoming trip. When researching 
keywords in the Travel industry it might seem 
that ‘flights’ is a great target keyword: it has a 
high volume and people booking flights likely 
also need to book accommodation. Except 
‘flights’ is not relevant to Booking.com’s 
functionality. There are other, more relevant apps 
that offer flight booking options, so the app 
stores will choose to show those apps in the 
search results instead.

 

If you have a look at the Live Search results for 
certain keywords you will see that both stores do 
a really great job to show the most relevant apps 
in the search results. The top 8 apps that rank for 
the keyword ‘flights’ are all apps that provide this 
functionality. 

10



Keyword Metrics
Once you have refined your semantic dictionary and removed all 
irrelevant keywords you can rely on AppTweak’s Keyword Metrics to help 
you decide which keywords are worth targeting and which may not be.

• Volume or Search Popularity - an indicator of how popular this 
keyword is in terms of searches. The metric varies between 5 and 
100. The closer the volume is to 100, the more often users use this 
keyword when searching in the app stores.

At AppTweak we found that most keywords have a volume between 6 and 40 and 
nearly all keywords that have a volume above 80 are branded keywords such as 
Instagram, Snapchat or Youtube. So when refining your keyword list, don’t disregard 
keywords with a volume of 20 as they might still drive a good amount of downloads 
to your app!

11



• Difficulty - a score that represents how much competition exists for a 
specific keyword. When a keyword has a high difficulty score it means 
that many very powerful apps rank for that keyword, making it harder 
for any other app to break through in the top 10.

• Chance - an indicator that estimates how likely a certain app is to 
rank in the top 10 for a keyword if it is chosen for the metadata.

• KEI - the Keyword Efficiency Index, a figure generated by AppTweak 
representing the ranking potential for a keyword, considering both 
the chance and volume scores.

Generally speaking you should select keywords with a high KEI, these 
are the keywords with the highest volume for which you have the highest 
chance to rank. 

12



Advanced keyword 

research tips

Consider competitor keyword rankings
Apps and games with strong branding and high download velocity often 
dominate the search results of interesting and high volume keywords. 
That makes it very hard for other apps or newcomers to gain exposure 
and rank top 10. Hence it is important to monitor your competitors and 
find keywords and combinations they are not ranking well for. This will 
allow you to target less competitive keywords that will increase your 
chance to rank in the top 10.

In the example below we have made a keyword 
list for the Sweat Fitness App. 



General keywords like ‘workout’, ‘fitness’ or 
‘exercise app’ are very popular keywords but 
also very competitive keywords with a high 
difficulty score. 



Even though the Sweat app targets these 
keywords in its metadata, they are likely not 
generating any downloads as the app does not 
rank in the top 10 for these keywords. 



Instead, when comparing the competitor’s 
keyword rankings we see there is opportunity for 
the Sweat app to rank for keywords such as 
‘personal training’ , ‘personal fitness coach’, 
‘exercise program’ or even ‘cardio program’. 
Even though these combinations have lower 
volume than ‘workout’ or ‘fitness’, if the app 
manages to rank in the top 3 for these keywords 
they will drive more downloads to the app.


13



Target long-tail combinations
Keyword space is limited in the app stores, especially on the Apple App 
Store. Apple provides 3 fields only where you can add keywords: the 
title (30 characters), the subtitle (30 characters) and the keyword field 
(100 characters). Therefore you should use your keywords wisely. Try to 
target keywords that make long-tail combinations (phrases of two or 
more keywords) to increase your scope and visibility.

When we consider the example of ‘word cookies’ we find that ‘search’ is an 
interesting keyword to target. The keywords ‘search’ by itself might not drive many 
downloads to the app, but it makes very interesting long-tail combinations such as 
‘word search games’, ‘word searches’, ‘crossword search’. 

One tool that can help automate this process is AppTweak’s Keyword 
Shuffle Tool. Add up to five different words to list all of the different 
long-tail combinations, then research their volumes and your app 
ranking - you might be surprised at some of the results!

14



Leverage Apple Search Ads to optimize your 
conversion rate
Both Apple and Google want to provide their users with the most 
relevant search results. As a result they consider the keyword conversion 
rate into their algorithm. However, ASO experts do not have any insights 
into organic keyword conversion rates so they need to look at different 
places to gather data. And Apple Search Ads can be one of these data 
sources. 



If you find that a certain set of keywords has a higher conversion rate 
than others in your Apple Search Ads campaigns, make sure to transfer 
over this knowledge into your organic ASO strategy and try to optimize 
your organic presence for those keywords.

15



Localization - How to 
keyword research in 
different languages

The App Store has over 148 available countries and regions 
and 37 languages that support localized metadata and Google 
Play supports 51 different languages. Search behaviour and 
keyword volume are completely different in each localized 
market due to varying cultures, linguistic trends and societal 
norms. To fully optimize your app’s visibility worldwide you 
have to consider localizing your metadata across all your target 
markets.



You don’t have to be a native speaker to optimize your app 
listing across several markets. ASO tools like AppTweak can 
help you find the right keywords you should target! Then with 
the use of a native speaker you can transform your research 
into well optimized metadata. 

16



How to keyword research in a foreign language
The keyword research process in a foreign language is pretty similar to 
the process described above. With AppTweak’s Keyword Research & 
Suggestion tools you can create a list of over 200 keywords in under 30 
minutes. Some of AppTweak’s most popular features when researching 
in a foreign language include:

• App Metadata: Select all the keywords your competitors are 
targeting in their metadata.


• Search Ads Reco: Quickly add all the keywords Apple suggest you 
or your competitors should bid on with Apple Search Ads.


• Trending Keywords: See which keywords are trending in the local 
app store.


• Ranked Keywords: Add all the keywords your competitors are 
ranking for in the top 1, 10 or 100.

Building an initial keyword list in a foreign language is easy with AppTweak. We 
have a built-in translation feature that translates your competitor’s app metadata 
and each keyword in your keyword list!

17



Selecting the most relevant keywords might be a more difficult task if 
you don’t speak the local language. Especially in Asian languages some 
words might have different meanings so how do you know which one is 
the most relevant to your app? AppTweak’s Live Search feature can help 
you with this. The Live Search feature shows you which apps are currently 
ranking for a keyword, providing insights into the true meaning of some 
words. 

For example, ‘holiday’ can be 
translated in Korean to ‘휴일’ . 
However, when looking at the Live 
Search Results we see that mostly 
calendar apps providing info into 
public holiday dates rank for that 
keyword. This can help us 
conclude that ‘holiday’ or ‘휴일’ is 
not the most relevant keyword for 
Booking.com to target in South 
Korea.

18



Localization in US, UK, CA and AU
This is often overlooked by many ASO experts or mobile marketers, but 
it is also very important you perform keyword research for the different 
English locales and localize your metadata for the United States, United 
Kingdom, Canada and Australia specifically. Careful keyword research 
can uncover local trends or competitors, different spellings or 
colloquialisms. Colloquial language is culture-based and regional 
differences affect search volumes in unique ways.



For example, if we take a look at a specific category, Casino Games, we 
can examine how each the US, UK and Australia have a different 
expression for ‘slot machines’.

Search Volume (iOS)

Keywords

slots 60 62 77

casino games 49 49 37

fruit machines 5 33 6

pokies 5 13 70

In the United States, ‘slots’ and ‘casino games’ are some of the more 
popular search terms, but in the United Kingdom, people also tend to 
use the word ‘fruit Machines. In Australia on the other hand ‘pokies’ is a 
very popular word.

19



Carefully executing keyword research is a crucial part of any ASO 
strategy. AppTweak has built a number of tools to help you easily find 
keyword ideas in any language. Our unique keyword metrics will further 
help you narrow down your research and really select those keywords 
that have the most potential to increase your app’s visibility. 

Sign up today for a 7-day free trial!
www.apptweak.com

20